In the previous video I issued you
with a challenge called the if challenge
and in this video we're going to go
through the solution to that.
So I'm going to start by creating a new file in
this project and we'll call it ifchallenge.
Alright so the first step was to get the
name and age from the user and we do
that using input name equals input
parentheses double quotes Please enter your name
and put a colon and a space
there, then our double quote and right
parenthesis. Next line, age equals int left
parentheses input left parenthesis and
double quotes How old are you question
mark and a space there, double quote
and two right parentheses. Alright, so far
so good. So remember to convert the age
to an int using the int function and you can
see that we're using that on line 2.
Now there are fewer ways to write the
conditions. I'm just going to use the
values that we used in the challenge
description. So I'm going to type if 18
is less than or equal to age less then 31:
then I'm going to print a message, print
parenthesis double quotes Welcome to
club 18 to 30 holidays comma then left
and right curly braces with a 0 in the
middle of it. Then outside the double
quote dot format name and the two
closing right parentheses else: on
the next line, print I'm sorry our
holidays are only for cool people. Not sure
how polite that message was. Okay
then we've got a double quote and right
parenthesis to end. Now you might have
checked for the age being greater than
17, or tested for less than or equal to
30. That will also work fine. Importantly
though, test your program thoroughly
and that involves entering ages less than 30,
greater than 30 and also the specific
endpoints 18 and 30. So let's just run
this to make sure that this does
work for us.
Please enter your name, Tim. I'm gonna start with
an age that's less than 18. We'll start with 17.
I'm sorry, our holidays are only for cool people. Same
thing again, Tim again,  just something
greater than 30 so we'll just do a 31
there, I'm sorry. That's working. Next, Tim
again. This time we're going to try the
specific end points, are 18 in this case,
Welcome, should be Welcome to. That's a
typo. Ok, so that's working and the last
one will test is if it equals 30, Welcome
to club
18 to 30 holidays Tim. Alright, so
that's the challenge solution and as I
mentioned again, you might have checked for
the age being greater than 17 or tested
for less than or equal to 30. That will
also work fine. Importantly though, make
sure again, you do test your program
thoroughly. That's always very important,
and you saw me test and what I did there
was I entered an age that was less than
18, that was greater than 30, and then I also
used the specific endpoints 18 and 30
and the program worked as expected.
Alright, so let's end the video here.
In the next one, we're going to start looking at for loops.
See you in the next video.